Add announcement and contributors for Bio-Formats 8.1.0 (#776)
ome/www.openmicroscopy.org: _posts/2025-02-05-bio-formats-8-1-0.md

---
layout: post
title: Release of Bio-Formats 8.1.0
intro-blurb: The OME team is pleased to announce the release of Bio-Formats 8.1.0
---

Today we are releasing Bio-Formats 8.1.0 which includes several fixes and improvements.

The full list of changes included in this release are as follows:

New file formats:

* Hamamatsu DCIMG

>     - add a new reader for Hamamatsu .dcimg files (thanks to [Zach Marin](https://www.openmicroscopy.org/contributors#zachmarin))

Reviewer: Assuming this and all the below should be

```suggestion
    - add a new reader for Hamamatsu .dcimg files (thanks to [Zach Marin]({{ site.baseurl }}/contributors#zachmarin))
```

File format fixes:

* Evident/Olympus OIR
    - fix an issue with reading timestamp metadata
* Evident/Olympus VSI
    - fix ordering of used files list
* Fuji
    - fix ordering of used files list
* Imaris HDF

>     - add caching and support for LZ4 compression (thanks to [Marco Stucchi](https://www.openmicroscopy.org/contributors#marcobitplane))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - add caching and support for LZ4 compression (thanks to [Marco Stucchi]({{ site.baseurl }}/contributors#marcobitplane))
```

* Leica TCS
    - ensure all relevant files are included in used files list

Bio-Formats improvements:

> * Remove `LOCI` entry from ImageJ plugins menu (thanks to [Tiago Ferreira](https://www.openmicroscopy.org/contributors#tferr))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Remove `LOCI` entry from ImageJ plugins menu (thanks to [Tiago Ferreira]({{ site.baseurl }}/contributors#tferr))
```
